During the contest that has been waging in Congress over the question of solving the financial difficulties into which a long course of ignoring the principles of finance has driven the country, we have felt little inclination to take part in the controversy, knowing well enough that whatever we might urge would be so different from anything that is practicable in Congress, that it would be time and space worse than wasted.  But since the measure adopted by Congress has been vtoed by the President, as it was certain from the beginning that it would be, and as any similar measure such as can pass the present Congress will be, we feel that some good may be done by a representation of the essence of what many times has appeared in these columns regarding this very important subject.

This virtual rupture between the President and Congress has a deeper meaning than is evident upon the surface.  There must be something of considerable moment that could cause the President to part company with the ruling power at the Capitol.  Nobody will credit him with having done this upon principle or upon any settled policy regarding the public welfare.  Aside from the usual commonplaces contained in his first Inaugural, he has neither said or done anything that could possibly warrant such an opinion; but he has both said and done many things that indicate plainly a deep regard for his own future.

The President is constitutionally of a military cast of mind.  He believe in authority and a power competent to enforce it.  And he realizes enough of the tendency of events to see, clearly, that this country is approaching a crisis in which there is to be a contest between authority and individual liberty, and his judgment is biased by his constitutional tendency in favor of the former.  He doesn't believe in the people any more or in any way other than the Astors, Stewarts and the Vanderbilts believe in them, and nothing could indicate this more clearly, except a direct statement, than his recent Veto message.

The bill that Congress offered the President for his approval was little more than an act to legalize what had all ready been done by the Secretary of the Treasury with the consent and approval of the President - the re-issue of a portion of the "forty-four millions."  The same policy that issued this reserve during the panic of last fall ought, it seems to us, have approved an act making the issue legal.  But the same power that invoked that issue by its influence over the President in Octoer reverses its demands in April, and induces the veto of the bill to make the issue legal.  The men who recently visited Washington to secure the defeat of the financial bill were the same, or they represented the same class who, in the panic, were clamorous for more greenbacks.  Then they needed the increase to help them carry their indebtedness through a "pinch"; now they want the volume of currency lessened, so that what they were enabled to carry through the panic may be increased nominally in value.

It is this influence that controls the Preisdent.  He perhaps does not think or even know that the people - the industrial masses - have any interest, or any right to any interest, in this question.  He probably thinks that the class who hold the wealth alone have any right to have anything to say about the matter; he probably does not realize that the interested of the debot and the creditor classes are not identical, or that lessening the volume of the currency one half would virtually double the amount which the former owes the latter.  General Grant is not a political economist.  Hence, to have done anything else than to veto so-called inflation would have been to desert the bondholders and the money-lenders and the welath monopolists generally, and to side with the industrial classes against them.

If ever there come a direct issue between labor and capital (and that such an issue is rapidly approaching not anyone who observes the progress of events can doubt), all the classes referred to will be found in league against labor.  Nor can it be doubted than an understanding to this effect exists now between the representatives of these classes, nor again, seeing the power that these representatives have other the President, that he is already commit to their schemes, nor in the event of the issue being recipitated during his term, that he will be found with his influence upon their side.  The veto message, then, has a much wider significance than any it can assume merely as a question of present financial policy, really extending, or rather merging, into the general issue between labor and capitol, and in this view it is safe to conclude that, let Congress pass whatever financial measure it may, the President will act for the interests of capital.  

The several classes who hold the aggregated wealth of the country desire a return to specie, all other classes who have any understanding of the subject deprecate such a return.  A strictly specie currency is desired by the former because, as it would be necessarily small in volume, it could be easier controlled by them.  The few hundred millions of specie would rperesent all the wealth, and they would own it and receive whatever usury for its use they might choose to demand.  But they are not satisfied with this monopoly.  They want, first, a return to a specie basis, and next they want the government to authorie them to issue currency, three or more dollars to one of gold, so that upon their several hundred million of gold they may really draw interest upon three or more time as much more currency.  Other reasons may be advanced, but sifted of all irrelevancy remains as the chief specie-payment motive.

This is so evident when the argument is advanced that national currency is better than greenbacks, that it is surprising to us that the people who pay interest do not see it.  Why are the national bank notes better than the greenbacks to the money-lenders?  Because they can convert their greenbacks into bonds and deposit their bonds with, and draw interest on, them from the government, and obtain a large percentage of national currency over the face of the bonds, and draw interest on that also from the public.  Why should not this class want the greenbacks retired and national currency to take their place as a circulating medium? Why, indeed! but because they are thus enabled to obtain quadruple interest upon the same wealth - interest from the government as the representative of the people, and from the people themselves directly as individuals.  Of course they will call for the currency and for free banking, that is free banking under such limitations of law as will give them entire control of the currency.

But what, at bottom, is really the underlying question involved in the present controversy?  We hear a great deal said and a great deal written about the "well known" and "well established principles of finance."  We deny that there are any principles involved in any part of the financial question as it is now being discussed.  The questions that are agitated are purely matters of policy.  There is no principle in the proposition that the gold dollar is the true monetary standard.  It is, on the contrary, the most arbitrary assumption possible to think of, having no conceivable basis in principle.  It is a financial dogma as unsupported by any natural reason of fact as the now long since exploded dogma of theology.  And it was invented for the same purposes that these dogmas were instituted for - to enslave the masses of the people, and it has succeeded industrially even more completely than they ever did religiously. 

It doesn't matter much about the scientific definition of money.  The best that has been given it is, that it is an invention to facilitate the exchange of the products of labor.  This ought, however, to be supplemented by this: and to increase the aggregate amount of such products.  The former is an original definition; the appendix being a result of its use, arising from the fact that by such use the manfucaturer is enabled to increase the amount of his products.  The practical definition of the money-lender, and that which best describes the uses to which money is put, is, that it is an invention to enable one class of persons to monopolize the products of another class of persons, and thereby to make it possible for the former legally to live from the labor of the latter.

This has been the result and still is the result of the uses of which money is made the subject, but in a humanitarian sense, in that sense which involves the public welfare - the welfare of all classes of people considered as one people - it ought to be deprived of the power that has been bestowed upon it to make one class subservient to another class.  Money in this sense - the humanitarian - is required so that commodities may be exchanged between produces without the actual transfer of one commodity for another, and should therefore be a representative of such commodities.  It ought not to be used as wealth, because it is not wealth.  It cannot be both the representative and the represented.  It cannot be both wealth and money.

A financial error that has prevailed is, that wealth cannot be used unless converted into gold, or unless it is measured by gold and, following this error, that wealth connot be serviceable as a whole because there is not gold enough in the world to convert it.

This is a virtual contradiction, since to require a gold measure for wealth, and then to not furnish enough to measure it entirely, is to make the quantity of gold in existence at any given time a measure for all other wealth in existence at such time.  This is illustrated by the fact that when the circulating medium - th emoney - of a country is reduced the nominal value of wealth is reduced proportionately.  The real standard of value is the amount of comfort, of happiness, or of life that any given commodity possesses.  A barrel of flour will sustain the life of a given number of persons a certain time, and it makes no difference if it cost a hundred or only five dollars, this time is neither shortened or lengthened thereby.  So it is clear that the price of flour is nominal and arbitrary according to our present money system, and so also is the price of every other article and thing.

But passing the question of definitions and principles, for what do we as a people require money?  Do we want a system that either purposely or as a necessary result will compel those who need more of it for preesnt use than they have, to pay a bonus under the name of interest to those who have more of it than they can use otherwise?  Or do we want a system that will permit those who have this need, who desire to increase the amount of their products by advances upon their prospective delivery, to obtain it without paying a bonus to anybody?  

If the former, then it follows that as a government we want to so legislate and promote the interests of the money-lenders and necessarily against the productive, industrial classes.  For to enact that the former may charge the latter for the use of something that they could as well, or better, obtain eslewhere without cost, if it were not for the law, is to legislate in the interests of the former and against those of the latter.  Nothing could be clearer than this.  And this, we say again, is the reason that the former class wants national currency instead of greenbacks.

If, however, it is the interests of the productive classes that legislation should endeavor to protect and to promote, then the duty of Congress is clear.  It should repeal the national banking law and provide a system of "greenbacks" or some other form of circulating medium that would furnish currency to those who have need to borrow without cost.  Instead of the government making money and paying interest to the rich to take it, who in turn loan it to the productive classes and obtain another interest by so doing, the government ought to loan it directly to the people for nothing.  It is not necessary to pay them to take it off its hands, as the government now pays those who deposit bonds and receive national currency.  This class of middlemen in our monetary system is an immense tax upon the industries of the country, of which Congress ought to rid them.  If the government were to furnish money to the manufacturer as he needs it, all the immense amounts now paind nominally by him, but really by the laborers to the capitalists, could be saved to the laborers, and the pecuniary standard of this class would be constantly and positively elevated, instead of as it now is, depreciated, both comparatively and really.

There is no possible objection based upon the public interest or the general welfare that can be raised as an argument against the issuing by the government to those who can give the rquired security, of all the currency that they need.  It is done now partially through the bankers and brokers who charge immense commisions in the form of interest and discounts.  Let those who want it get it direct from the government or its agents, and without cost, unless it be a sufficient charge to pay the expense of maintaining the system, and thus do away with banking, as it is now conducted, at the expense of industry, by which conduct all the surplus products of labor are aggregated in the hands of those who hold the wealth.

It will be objected of course by the capitalist, if the government loan money to the people free, that their capital will be of no use to them.  But they forget that iw will enable them to live without work as long as it lasts, after which they would have to go to some productive labor.  It will also be said that such an issue of money to the people who depreciate the value of property.  Of their property, granted, because its present value is purely fictitious and arbitrary, and not determined by any natural or just standard.  This much, however, must be clear to everbody, that the people would never have any more money than they should want, and this amount would be regulated or restricted by the possible security which they could furnish.

By such a system both the vlaues of accumulated wealth and the volume of circulating medium would be naturally regulated, and would soon assume an established standard, which would never be subjected to appreciation and depreciation by panics, since under it there could be no cause to induce them.  Panics are possible only because commodities and things have a fictitious value fixed upon them by an arbitrary monetary standard which is subject to all sorts of influences.  THe real value of anything can never be either appreciated or depreciated except through change in the thing itself, while under a free money system the price of everything would naturally and necessarily advance or fall to the real value, which would become the established price.

Let Congressman who are really desirous to advance the interests of the country think of these things from a general instead of from a class standpoint, and putting aisde the demands of the bondholders and the moneylenders, insist that the interests of the producers of wealth have the attention of those who should be the representatives of the people, and not, as Congress now is, the promoters of the interests of those who have through legal measures monopolized all the wealth that the people have produced, and who want such additional legislation as will still more effectually make their designs successful - who want more national currency and less greenbacks, where the interests of the producers demand an abolition of the former and as many of the latter as their productive capacities may severally require, in order that these capacities may be fully exercised.  It is the amount and not the price of commodities that determines the aggregate wealth, and therefore whathever facility is added to the present capacity for production adds to the aggregate of wealth.


