A single question will, however, show the absurdity of the theory of ownership.  If parents own their children, how does it come that they ever lose their title, as they do at adult age; or again, and still more forcibly, if the title of children is in their parents, how is it that society, by its laws, claims them when, before adult age, the commit some crime, or still again, to whom is this ownership transferred when the parents die, and again, how is it that society compels the education of children?  if they belong to their parents, what right has society to meddle?  Answer these and then say if you can that children do not belong to society.

It is well known that, as civilization progresses and education becomes more a question of public interest, society demands more and more the conduct of the instruction of children.  Public schools are now imperative, where, but a hundred years ago, there was no such system.  Compulsory education is already adopted in some States and is being seriously considered as a national measure.  It is but one step beyond compulsory education to the complete charge of children.  If society have the right to say how and how much a child shall be educated mentally, it certainly has the right, also, to say what the other processes of education shall be.

Indeed, it is more than a right.  It is a duty that society owes to those whom it is to make amenable to its regulations, that they shall have the best possible preparation to assume the insticts and the responsibilities of citizenship and equals, and still more a duty, that all children should become citizens, having received equal opportunities of preparation, so that no man, by his superior culture, shall be able to enslave others of less acquirements, either industrially, intellectually, or in any other manner whatever.  Who shall dare say, if all children should be reared according to the theory of M Godin's Industrial Palace, at Guise, France, that they would not be better men and woman than those who have been reared under our present theory of parental ownership?

What will become of the children?  Again, what does become of them?  One half of all children cut off by death before the age of five years - a commentary on the pretended anxiety for children that seems more like a horrible tragedy.  Think of it, mothers! fathers! reformers!  One half of all children dying before they reach five years of age - victims of our present social system, f the prevailing ignorance of the science of sexuality and the needs of the houng, and of the theory of parental ownership!  The world cannot afford this terrible loss.  When a ship founders at sea, with the loss of a few hundred lives, the whole country is aroused over the horror, but it sleeps quietly over the fact double that number of children - babes, almost - fall victim daily to the fell destroyers, ignorance and superstition and false social customs.


